Good morning, everyone.
Y'all are still asleep, man.
Good morning.
Hey, I just want to introduce myself to those who are joining us, maybe at our campuses or online.
My name is Jamie Smith.
I am the children's pastor here.
I'm blessed to be able each week to work with our kids and our families.
It is my desire that our ministry partners with families to see their kids greatly influenced in their faith walks.
Each week we get to see these kids really ask some awesome questions, but usually at this point they're asking for candy.
So our ushers are coming at this point to hand out some dumb dums.
Y'all don't want any dumb dums?
I know some of my kids would want a dumb dumb at this point.
But we are honored, if you would, if you have a Bible with you, would you mind taking a moment to turn to Ephesians chapter three?
We're going to start in verse number 14.
Before we start, I just want to tell you that I hate certain signs.
I'm not talking about miraculous signs.
I'm talking about signs everywhere there's signs when you go out to stores and different things.
One of my least favorite signs has only one word on it.
It's the sign closed.
Last week, my family and I were on a trip and there's this little place that we love to go get ice cream at.
And so one night after we had eaten a huge supper,
The kids were like, Dad, we want ice cream.
And they're like, oh, no.
And so we loaded up the pilot and we started down to the ice cream place.
But the problem was it was kind of late.
And so as we pull up into the parking lot, parking lot's full, and as we drive by the door to get our parking spot, someone reaches to the door, grabs that sign, flips it over, and says closed.
And with weeping and gnashing of teeth,
We reloaded the pilot and drove back to the room and settled for a Klondike bar.
Was it the same?
But you know guys, here's the thing about life.
We live in expectation each and every day.
You want me to prove it?
If you have your keys handy, pull your keys out of your pocket.
Now I have expectation in my hand that when I leave this parking or leave this room today, go to the parking lot
If I push this button, it's gonna unlock my door.
And if I put this in the ignition and turn it, what's gonna happen?
It's gonna start my car.
But there's nothing more disappointing than to put that key in your car, turn it, and it sounds something like this.
It's disappointing, isn't it?
And see guys, in life, we encounter different kinds of disappointments like,
What may upset you like I wasn't really upset that we didn't get ice cream because I'm particularly fond of soft serve rather than Mayfield, it's just me.
But my kids were not happy.
They wanted ice cream and they wanted it then.
But it could be you have other expectations in life.
Like say you're going to the doctor next week for a physical, you're not expecting for the doctor to come back in and close the door and say, hey, we need to talk.
Right?
You're also not expecting your phone to ring this afternoon.
And someone say, Hey, are you sitting down?
I need to tell you something.
You see, we live every day with expectations.
And the problem with expectation is that when expectations are not met, it leads to great disappointment.
Chip Ingram has a formula that goes something like this, that the amount of disappointment you experience is the difference between your reality and what you expected to happen.
So if I want a pizza for lunch and I leave here and I go to my favorite pizza place and the sign says, closed, I'm probably not going to be upset because we'd go somewhere else.
But if I go to the parking lot and I go to start my car after I put a brand new battery in it before I left on my vacation a few weeks ago and it won't start, I will probably be upset.
But now put that in terms of spirituality.
But God, I prayed and you didn't give me the answer.
Lord, I followed what you said, but this didn't happen.
Lord, I went to church every week and you let this happen to me.
Why God?
Why me?
Why now?
Why this?
In fact, you could be like this mother who on her website dedicated to her daughter said this.
When we adopted Katie 24 years ago, I felt that the Lord had said he would use her to preach to the nations that God loves when she died.
I'll let that sit for a moment.
This young lady had a blood disorder.
When she died, I felt like I had totally missed God and I didn't understand.
In fact, probably much like this cup.
This cup has nothing in it.
When you and I encounter different frustrations in life and disappointments, especially when it comes down to God, we can be left feeling very empty and dark and alone.
How many of you have had those little prayer sessions at night?
When your pillow is drenched with tears and you're saying, God, where are you?
Why have you left me alone?
Why did you let this happen to me?
You ever felt that way?
You see, for many of us today, we walked into this room.
We had an expectation of what church was gonna be like.
For some of us, we came in and go, okay, you know, we're gonna come in, we're gonna listen, maybe somebody's seen, we'll take out some money, somebody's gonna preach, and we're gonna go home and have lunch.
But can I propose to you that the way a church service can act and operate, or the way that your life can act and operate,
has a lot to do with how full your cup is.
Because if you don't expect a lot of things to happen, they won't.
But what if, what if we need to be reminded God is not limited by our expectations?
What if I were to tell you that in your Christian walk, if you're walking alone outside the power of God, outside of faith and empty, then you're matching up to your expectations.
But what if I were to remind you this morning that God has not contained?
He is not limited by your expectations.
So if you have your Bible open, would you listen to what the Lord has to say in regards to our expectations?
If you want to stand with me while we read the Scripture, that would be excellent.
For this reason, I bow my knees before the Father.
And this is all writing in prison.
He's not praying for himself.
He didn't go on to say, okay, God, I want you to bless these people, but let me out of jail.
He didn't even mention that.
He's praying for the Ephesian church.
And he says, from whom every family in heaven and on earth derives its name.
Well, why is that important?
Well, in this context in chapter three, Paul is talking about the divine mystery of Christ and how you have Gentile and Jewish believers.
And now he's trying to find a way to get them to get along.
Because the Jews believed there were God's promised people, that's from whom where Jesus came.
And now you got these people who are uncircumcised, who don't know the law, and they're having to have church together.
You ever had to go to church with somebody you don't get along with?
Read the New Testament because it happened the whole time.
But he wanted to remind them that everyone came from God, the Father, when he created man in his image, according to his likeness, but sin martyce and pulled us down.
And this is what he prays that he would grant you, which is in a dependent nature, according to the riches of his glory to be strengthened with dynamite.
That's the Greek through his spirit in the inner man, where?
Inside.
So that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith and that you being rooted and grounded in what?
Love.
So he's talking about strength.
He's talking about love, may be able to understand with all the saints what is the breadth, the length, the height and the depth to know the love of Christ, which surpasses knowing to know something you don't know that you may be.
I love this phrase.
One of my favorite phrases in the Bible to be filled up to all the fullness of God, not empty.
Now here's the great promise.
Now to him who is able to do far more abundantly beyond all that we could ask or think.
I can think a lot of cool things, but he's saying even what I can begin to comprehend according to the dynamite that works in us to him be the glory in the church and in Christ Jesus to all generations forever and ever.
Let's pray.
Father, would you light us like dynamite right now?
And that your spirit may open our eyes to open our ears, that we can be reminded that no matter what situation we are in today, God, you can fill us to the fullest, that you can restore hope even in our bleakest moment.
In Jesus' name, amen.
So if you noticed in that first part,
of the passage.
The primary purpose of the indwelling spirit is to prepare us on the inside.
Cy Robertson, one of the smartest men in America, would say often that if you put lipstick on a pig, it's still a pig, right?
Well, guys, God wants to work in here.
We can do a lot of things to work on the outside.
We can make ourself look like we've got it all together, can't we?
We're really good at it.
But God is after your heart.
In fact, it took me a long time, really long time growing up before I understood that when I was saved, God put his spirit inside of me.
I was very undecipaled.
But when I realized for passages like Ephesians 1, 13, that he sealed you and me with the Holy Spirit of promise.
Well, what's that promise?
Well, go back to the Old Testament.
In Ezekiel 36, 26 and 27, he makes it clear that he wanted to take out that heart that didn't want to obey him, that didn't want to glorify him.
and put his spirit inside of us to cause us to obey his commands.
Well, that's important.
What if you rewind the tape all the way to the beginning?
God created Adam and Eve to represent him.
But when they send, it marred the image of God inside of them and outside of them.
So therefore we could no longer be that representation of God.
However, God had a plan, right?
He would send Jesus Christ.
to die on the cross, to pay for our sin, but he wasn't finished with us.
He didn't just save you just to get you out of hell, that's a great, great, ultimate benefit.
But the right now, God wants to live in and through you, Galatians 220.
I'm crucified with Christ.
It's no longer I that live, but who Christ lives in me through the Holy Spirit and the life that I live, I live by faith in the Son of God who loved me.
gave himself for me.
He doesn't want to leave you in the same condition that he found you.
Paul sent in Ephesians two that when he found you, you were dead.
Dead things don't do anything because they're dead.
We hit a big bug coming back from the beach.
It splatted, right?
You know, you ever hit one and it'd be right in front of you and you can't see around it.
That dead, that bug is not coming back from the dead.
But the Bible says that the same power that raised Jesus from the dead now lives inside of you and me.
And Paul is praying and saying, I want them, the Ephesians church, and I believe us as well, to be strengthened with that power that only comes from his Holy Spirit.
You and I have been given a great gift and he wants us to live
Not just different.
He wants us to live in powered lives.
I mean, how is it that we can be his witnesses to our Judea and our Jerusalem and the utmost parts of the world?
If we're doing it in our own power, in our own strength, if we could do it in our own strength, Jesus didn't have to die for our sins.
We could just do a whole bunch of good stuff and go to heaven feeling good about ourselves, couldn't we?
That's not what he meant.
That's not what he intended.
He wanted his glory to live through us.
You know, I kind of wonder when Moses went up on the mountain and met with God and he came back with the glory of God on him.
Remember what he had to do?
He had to put a veil over his face.
I kind of believe because it offended people.
They didn't want to see the true glory of God because when we step into the light of God, it exposes our imperfections, doesn't it?
But he does so because he loves us and he wants it to be exposed so it no longer has control over us.
It's always confused me why someone would want to profess to believe in Jesus Christ and be saved and still live in the same muck and sin that they lived in before.
Have you ever wondered that?
And we don't have to.
If you do a good word study in the book of Ephesians, you'll see the word walk a lot.
He has called all of us to walk
with Christ to walk in this partnership with the Holy Spirit, that is intended to empower us.
And the truth is, as guys, we can not give people hope when ours is empty.
We can't offer people something that we don't have, can we?
Kind of like a few years or like a year ago, we went to Disney and I went to Hook Island.
They've been there where they have the Huckleberry Finn.
It's really cool.
I'd never done it before.
I needed a break.
So we took the little fairy over and I took two of my kids with me, but it was fascinating.
It was really neat, but I take these things for granted because we all live in the South and we've heard stories of the Mississippi and the Chattahoochee and, you know, we just, it's Southern, right?
But what's interesting is to watch foreigners.
Now I'm going to make it fun on this because they, they grew up elsewhere.
They didn't grow up in the south.
They didn't grow up in America.
And so to hand somebody a copy of a, Hey, read the Huckleberry Finn.
And they're just kind of looking at it and they're reading about steamboats and they're reading about gators and they're like, what, what is this?
You see, because for you and for me,
When God puts his spirit inside of us, he strengthens us.
He wants something to go out from us.
The primary directive of the indwelling spirit is to reveal Christ through us, to reveal Christ through us.
If the primary purpose is to prepare us, he doesn't want to just stop there.
It's rained a lot recently, right?
We have an old sandbox on our back porch.
Kids don't play with it anymore.
It looks like a turtle.
It's missing an eye.
It's the eyeless turtle.
Well, a few weeks ago, I decided we're going to get the sand out.
So I got the sand out and I leaned it up against the rail and it has this lip and the lip caught some water.
And I forgot about it.
Guess what happened to that water when we had the drought?
It's stagnated.
Stagnet water is water that gets trapped.
It has no inlet and no outlet.
And you and I are no different when it comes to quenching the Holy Spirit.
If we want the love of God just for us and we want the spirit of God just for us, guess what?
It's going to do.
It's going to quench up.
It's going to conquer.
It's going to smell because God didn't intend for you to be a catch can.
He intended you to be a conduit.
He wants the spirit of God to flow through you so that you can impact this world.
Look at what he said in the scripture.
so that Christ may dwell in your heart through faith.
Is your cup empty?
If you are in despair and you are hopeless today, what if you just ask God to fill it up?
Kind of a novel idea.
But there's a reason for it because when we are empowered, then look, check this out.
And that you being rooted, this is perfect tense and grounded perfect tense in love.
I can tell somebody I love them, but until I show them that love, it, those words mean nothing.
They're just words falling on deaf ears.
You see, God intended that through you and through me,
He's talking about the church in this context, the mystery, the divine mystery of Christ, being able to go out into the world, unless you and I are grounded in that love, unless we are operating through that strength and that power that comes from him, then we can't impact those who are around us.
In fact, I would probably argue that we don't care to impact those who are around us.
One of the reasons this cup gets empty is because we do too much, too much looking at us and not enough time looking at others.
In fact, I heard an old story one time.
There was a doctor who was struggling with depression and he's going to a psychologist and the psychologist is like, really wasn't getting anywhere with him.
And so he had this idea.
He said, you know what we'll do?
I want you to go to McDonald's and I want you to buy a Happy Meal, go down to the train tracks and find a homeless person and give them a Happy Meal and leave.
And I want you to do that over and over again.
Guess what happened is depression.
It alleviated it.
Why?
because he needed an outlet.
Rather than storing it up for a safe day, he needed somewhere to let that thing be expressed.
Because until we do that, the experience of love must be realized inside of us before it can be expressed to other men.
You see that, right?
I can't love my children until I love my wife well.
I truly believe, and Paul talks about this in Ephesians later in the book, he talks about how man can't really love his wife unless he loves himself.
Well, I would argue I can't love my kids unless I love my wife.
The greatest gift I can give to my kids is the loving relationship that I have with my wife, because it gives them security.
When you're feeling hopeless and in despair, you've lost your security.
You've lost your footing.
You've lost your groundedness.
You need to be reminded that God has promised that He would fill you with the Spirit to strengthen you, to ground and root you in His love.
Because it's kind of like this.
I've got a couple more cups up here.
Why don't you think about capacity for a moment?
Now, Tony Evans told a great illustration years ago
that I have robbed, I love this illustration, but he was talking about God and being filled to the full, being like the Pacific Ocean.
There's so much of God.
But if my expectation is maybe say the size of a thimble, and I go down to the Pacific Ocean and I dip that thimble into the ocean, how much of God am I gonna get?
How much?
A thimble's worth, because that's the capacity of the container, right?
Well, what if I took this?
This is what I have called a jelly bean holder because it's what we gave to the kids back at Easter.
This held jelly beans.
It's really insulting in a way because it's not a lot of jelly beans can hold in this.
But if I went down to the ocean and dipped this into the water, how much of the water can I get?
A jelly bean holder's work.
If I take this cup that I've been showing you and I go down to the Pacific Ocean and I dip it, how much can I get?
because that's my capacity.
And I can keep going on all the way up to, y'all may not know this, but I do know how to operate an 18-wheeler.
It's just not lasting to do it.
So I won't prove it.
But if I took and hooked it up to a tanker and drove down to the Pacific Ocean and filled it up with water, how much water will it hold?
A tanker full.
The point is this.
And now, let me, where I got a quote, where's my quote?
Oh, I put it in here, excuse me.
This is what Tony Evans
said at the end of that, how can you ask God who made the Pacific Ocean to give you more than your thimble's worth that of your commitment will allow?
The reason God allows us to go through trials and tribulations is so that our capacity will increase so that we can get more and we can get more.
And then let me ask you this, what if, what if this had water in it and I started pouring it in and it started running over.
Let's see.
Check this out.
The primary experience of the indwelling spirit is to witness his power's work.
Is that word?
Beyond?
Because he said in the word, now to him who is able to do far more abundantly beyond all that we ask or think according to his what?
His power again, he said, he wanted to be strengthened by the power of the Holy Spirit.
Now he's saying that you would be able to do far more abundantly.
Did Jesus not tell his disciples that they would do greater things than he did in the upper room?
So why is that not true today?
Why is it that oftentimes we approach our Christian walk as just, well, it's just my thing to do.
It's like if I wanted to tell somebody about Jesus and I went up to him and said, hey, Jesus is the best thing that ever happened to you.
Would you believe me?
No, but when I truly have grasped the understanding and experience the love and the power of God, I don't just go up to somebody and say, I'm like, dude, Jesus is the best thing that can happen to your life.
There is no power of God manifested when I can accomplish something in my own strength.
Far more than we can ask.
I can imagine a lot of things, but when I'm in desperate need, when I'm in a hopeless situation, I need to know that the God of the universe cares enough about me that He would fill me back to the full.
As Paul said, when I'm weak, that's when I'm strong.
See, we can come in and we can have all that exterior looking great.
We can put on the smiles, we can carry our Ryrie study Bible that's about this thick with all the study notes we've ever heard.
But when my heart is rotten and discouraged and down and out, the only solution is Jesus.
Years ago, I did an illustration.
And it didn't, I didn't even attend to this.
I went to the store and I bought the perfect red delicious apple.
I love crispy apples.
Oh gosh, so good.
I love honey crisp now.
That's my favorite.
But I bought the, I mean, this thing was like this big and I mean, it had been buffed to a shine.
There wasn't a spot.
There wasn't a blemish on it.
And I went to speak to some young upcoming pastors about, you know, this is where your core values are.
And then that's expressed in the skin.
I went to cut that apple.
And it was rotten.
It was black.
I wish I can't recreate that because it just happened by chance.
I took that moment to show up and said, you know what?
It doesn't matter what the outside looks like.
If this is the inside, you're hopeless.
My question to you is this.
What if you re-dreamed again?
What if you dreamed a God-sized dream in your life?
Maybe those test results, I'm not sure how they'll play out, but I do know who's got,
my life in their, in his hands.
What if I said, you know what God?
I'm going to trust you to do far beyond anything I can possibly think or imagine.
What if I were this morning to take whatever expectations I have and surrender them to the Lord?
Cause that formula that said that disappointment is equal to reality minus expectation.
You can really change that to say that joy equals reality.
minus expectation.
When I trust that the Lord has my life in his hands, then there are things that I can't even possibly dream about that God can do in and through my life.
So would you bow your heads with me this morning?
And I'll ask a couple of things and then we're gonna have our invitation.
But the first one is this.
Have you come in here this morning feeling empty like this cup?
Hopeless?
alone, like God's left you.
I'm here to tell you, He hasn't left you.
See, because if we have trusted Christ as our Savior, He's as close as our heart, isn't He?
He put Him inside of us, so He's there with us, correct?
What I want to ask this morning is the same thing that Paul asked in his prayer, that you would be filled to the full.
If that's you this morning and you just want to be prayed for, and no one's looking around, just slip your hand up and put it back down.
Thank you.
Now, if you don't know Jesus Christ as your Savior, all you have to do is receive Him this morning.
He died on the cross to pay your sin death, to rescue you from death, was raised again to prove that He had beat sin and death and can grant you and me eternal life.
If that's you this morning, would you trust Him?
I'm going to be down at the front with Brandon.
If you want to be prayed for, if you want to talk to somebody a little bit more about that, maybe you've been saved and you'd like to be baptized.
To obey Christ, to obey Him at His Word, you'd like to come forward and be considered for baptism.
We'll be up here for that as well.
If you want to join Concord, now's the time.
Make this your home.
Put down your roots here.
Find a place to connect and serve.
And we'd love to talk to you about that.
Father, as we come to this invitation, Lord, we surrender it to you.
God, there were hands that went up, and I just pray, Father, that whatever their need is.
God, let them surrender that expectation to you.
We can't control reality.
We can't even control outcomes, but we can control our hope.
For some of us, it's easy to look at the negative.
But what we ask this morning, God, is that you would work in us to see where you're at work and that you would touch us in Jesus' name.
Would you stand with me as we sing?
And if any of those conditions fit you this morning, we'll be up here at the front waiting on you to come.